{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}{\*\mmathPr\mnaryLim0\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 # Mayastor FAQs\par
## How does it help to keep my data safe?\par
Mayastor's storage engine, or "nexus" as we term it, provides synchronous mirroring functionality to enhance the durability of data at rest within whatever physical persistence layer is in use.  When volumes are provisioned which are configured for replication \\(a user can control the count of active replicas which should be maintained, on a per StorageClass basis\\), write I/O operations issued by an application to that volume are 'amplified' by the nexus and sent to all active replicas.  Only if every replica completes the write successfully on its own underlying block device will the I/O completion be acknowledged.  Otherwise, the I/O is failed and must be tried by the caller.  If a replica is determined to have faulted \\(I/O cannot be serviced within the configured timeout period, or not without error\\), the control plane will automatically take corrective action and remove it from the volume.  If spare capacity is available within another Mayastor pool, a new replica will be created as a replacement and automatically brought into syncrhonisation with the existing replicas.  The data path for a replicated volume is described in more detail [here]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/openebs/mayastor-docs/blob/master/reference/i-o-path-description.md#replicated-volume-io-path }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/openebs/mayastor-docs/blob/master/reference/i-o-path-description.md#replicated-volume-io-path\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
## How is it configured?\par
This Mayastor documentation contains sections which are focused on initial, 'quickstart' deployment scenarios, including the correct configuration of underlying hardware and software, and of Mayastor features such as "Storage Nodes" \\(MSNs\\) and "Disk Pools" \\(MSPs\\).  Information describing tuning for the optimisation of performance is also provided.\par
["Quickstart" Guide]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://mayastor.gitbook.io/introduction/quickstart/configure-mayastor }}{\fldrslt{https://mayastor.gitbook.io/introduction/quickstart/configure-mayastor\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
[Performance Tips]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://mayastor.gitbook.io/introduction/quickstart/performance-tips }}{\fldrslt{https://mayastor.gitbook.io/introduction/quickstart/performance-tips\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
MayaData provides resources which can automatate both these types of configuration tasks.  These include the ("automation playground" project)[{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/mayadata-io/deployment-automation-playground/tree/main/demo-playground }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/mayadata-io/deployment-automation-playground/tree/main/demo-playground\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ], which uses Terraform and Ansible, is pluggable and extensible, and is able to deploy both FIO based benchmarking and other workloads for initial "first sighting" deployments.\par
## What is the basis for its performance claims?  Has it been benchmarked?\par
Mayastor has been built to leverage the performance potential of contemporary, high-end,  solid state storage devices as a foremost design consideration.  For this reason, the I/O path is predicated on NVMe, a transport which is both highly CPU efficient and which demonstrates highly linear resource scaling.  The data path runs entirely within user space, also contributing efficiency gains as syscalls are avoided, and is both interrupt and lock free.\line\line MayaData has performed its own benchmarking tests in collaboration with Intel, using latest generation Intel P5800X Optane devices "The World's Fastest Data Centre SSD".  In those tests it was determined that, on average, across a range of read/write ratios and both with and without synchronous mirroring enabled, the overhead imposed by the Mayastor I/O path was well under 10% \\(in fact, much closer to 6%\\).\par
Further information regarding the testing performed may be found [here]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://blog.mayadata.io/mayastor-nvme-of-tcp-performance }}{\fldrslt{https://blog.mayadata.io/mayastor-nvme-of-tcp-performance\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 )\par
##  What is the on-disk format used by Disk Pools?  Is it also open source?\par
Mayastor makes use of parts of the open source [Storage Performance Development Kit (SPDK)]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://spdk.io/ }}{\fldrslt{https://spdk.io/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ) project, contributed by Intel.  Currently, and for the anticipated General Availability \\(GA)\\ release, Mayastor's Storage Pools use the SPDK's Blobstore structure as their on-disk persistence layer.  Blobstore structures and layout are [documented]({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/spdk/spdk/blob/master/doc/blob.md }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/spdk/spdk/blob/master/doc/blob.md\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ).\par
Since the replicas \\(data copies\\) of Mayastor volumes are held entirely within Blobstores, it is not possible to directly access the data held on Disk Pool block devices from outside of Mayastor.  Equally, Mayastor cannot directly 'import' and use existing volumes which aren't of Mayastor origin.  MayaData is considering alternative options for the persistence layer which may support such data migration goals but any such contribution will not be part of the currently planned GA release. \par
## Can the size / capacity of a Disk Pool be changed?\par
For the planned GA release, the size of a Disk Pool is fixed at the time of creation and is immutable.  A single Disk Pool may have only one block device as a member.  These constraints may be removed in later versions.\par
## How can I ensure that replicas aren't scheduled onto the same node?  How about onto nodes in the same rack / availability zone?\par
The replica placement logic of Mayastor's control plane doesn't permit replicas of the same volume to be placed onto the same node, even if it were to be within different Disk Pools.  For example, if a volume with replication factor 3 is to be provisioned, then there must be three healthy Disk Pools available, each with sufficient free capacity and each located on its own Mayastor node.\line\line It is not planned to further supplement this level of topology awareness for the planned GA version.  Enhancements are under consideration for inclusion in MayaData Propel-based operators for Mayastor, which may be available for later versions of the latter.\par
## How can I see the node on which the active nexus for a particular volume resides?\par
The `MayastorVolume` Kubernetes custom resource representing the state and configuration of the volume includes this information within its `Status.Nexus.Node` field. \par
## Is there a way to automatically rebalance data across available nodes?  Can data be manually re-distributed?\par
There are currently no plans to include this functionality within the GA release of Mayastor.  It may be a feature of future releases, or of Propel operators for Mayastor.\par
## Can mayastor do async replication to a node in the same cluster?  How about a different cluster? \par
Mayastor does not peform asynchronous replication.\par
## Does Mayastor support RAID?\par
Mayastor's Disk Pools do not implement any form of RAID, erasure coding or striping (in the GA release they will support only the membership of a single disk device).  If higher levels of data redundancy are required, Mayastor volumes can be provisioned with a replication factor of greater than 1, which will result in synchronously mirrored copies of their data being stored in multiple Disk Pools across multiple Storage Nodes.  If the block device on which a Disk Pool is created is actually a logical unit backed by its own RAID implementation (e.g. a Fibre Channel attached LUN from an external SAN) it can still be used within a Mayastor Disk Pool whilst providing protection against physical disk device failures.\par
## Which environments is Mayastor tested in?\par
Mayastor's maintainers perform end-to-end testing on Mayastor running on Kubernetes version 1.19.  Worker nodes run Ubuntu 20.04.2 LTS, using the docker runtime 20.10.5\par
## Does Mayastor perform compression and/or deduplication?\par
No.\par
## Does Mayastor support snapshots?  Clones?\par
These features will not be available in the GA release.\par
## Which CPU architectures are supported?  What are the minimum hardware requirements?\par
Mayastor nightly builds and releases are compiled and tested on x86.  Some effort has been made to allow compilation on ARM platforms but this is currently considered experimental and is not subject to integration or end-to-end testing by Mayastor's maintainers.  There are no plans to support ARM for the GA release.\par
Minimum hardware requirements are discussed in the [quickstart section](https://mayastor.gitbook.io/introduction/quickstart/prerequisites) of this documentation.\par
Mayastor does not run on Raspbery Pi as the version of the SPDK used by Mayastor requires ARMv8 Crypto extensions which are not currently available for Pi.\par
## Does Mayastor suffer from TCP congestion when using NVME-TCP?\par
Mayastor, as any other solution leveraging TCP for network transport, may suffer from network congestion as TCP will try to slow down transfer speeds. It is important to keep an eye on networking and fine-tune TCP/IP stack as appropriate. This tuning can include \\(but is  not limited to\\) send and receive buffers, MSS, congestion control algorithms \\(e.g. you may try DCTCP\\) etc.\par
\par
\par
}
 